Viral Makwana 

19 Owen Road, Hayes Middlesex

020 8797 3755

07891468348

https://github.com/viralmakwana/

viral.makwana09@gmail.com

							

Personal Profile

I enjoy challenges and am committed to exceeding personal and set
expectations. With excellent communication and presentation skills, I
welcome teamwork where I posses the ability to work and build
relationships with people across all levels.

Employment :

Date: March 2013 – Present

Linux Enterprise Administrator

This role in particular is working with high spend clients to deliver
fanatical support in the Rackspace Enterprise segment. 

Roles includes, but not limited to:

Helping customers get the most of our dedicated equipment and help them
to fine tune their setups. This includes working with mostly RedHat ( 5
-> 6 ) and CentOS systems.

Managing the patching for a customers server. Each server is registered
with a internal satellite server which mirrors packages from RedHat.

Working extensively with the 'LAMP' stack. In particular dealing with
issues relating to Apache and MySQL. Ranging from simple creation of
virtualhosts to debugging simple queries within MySQL

Working with email systems such as Postfix. Whether to setup a new relay
or configure inbound mail.

Writing shell scripts to automate common tasks. This can range from
creating users across an entire customer server estate to more complex
scripts.

Being on the 'QC' team, to help setup new servers for customers. These
servers need to go through a vigorous testing phase before being handed
off to customers.

Working with RHCS extensively. Including creating new clusters, to
troubleshooting clusters. Mainly this is for RHEL | CentOS 6 systems.

Using github to simplify script and code maintenance

Dealing with all manner of Linux related OS-side problems on servers.
This includes, corrupted filesystems, troubleshooting high load,
patching using yum and rpm. Working with LVM volumes extensively and
much more besides.

Working with internal teams to help deliver a more seamless experience
for the end customer and working with account teams to help them
understand complex solutions in a simple, friendly way.

Working with customers to help better their solutions. This can include
better management of their users using LDAP, to using a SAN solution for
their storage needs. 

Dealing with high level incidents in a timely manner. This has recently
included Shellshock | Poodle | GHOST and heartbleed. Its important such
vulnerabilties are fixed in a timely manner..

Working on 'Hybrid' setups which implement both cloud technologies and
dedicated equipment, and helping to ensure a seamless process between
the 2.

Working extensively with NFS filesystems, including troubleshooting and
recommending the appropriate use of NFS. ( v3 and v4 )

Working on customer PCI requirements.

Slow introducing customers to the world of RHEL7

Date: March 2012 – March 2013

Cloud Support Administrator

Rackspace:

Rackspace® is the global leader in hybrid cloud and founder of
OpenStack.

Role included, but not limited to:

Working with Cloud customers to help them understand how cloud would fit
their needs

Working with OpenStack  and helping to build a more stable cloud
platform.

Working with internal teams to help troubleshoot customer issues,
ranging from OS-side application issues, to potential issues with the
Xen hypervisor

Helping to resolve issues on the OS, dealing with a wide-range of
problems, be it performance tuning, troubleshooting applications or just
patching the system.

Date: March 2010 – February 2012

IT First Line Servicedesk Engineer

The Warranty Group:

The Warranty is the world’s leading single-source provider for the
underwriting, administration and marketing of service contracts and
related benefits. With the global market intelligence of 1800 employees
in 33 countries, and with 46 years of experience.

Role Includes:

Liaising with customers and clients in UK and Europe, supporting a user
base of 350+

Ensuring Servicedesk SLA’s are met and customers are handled
efficiently and effectively

Working with Microsoft Server 2003 Citrix and Windows operating systems
(XP, 7)

Working with Avaya phone systems 

Supporting users with Lotus Notes V6.5 and above

Managing desktop and laptop builds, ensuring images are kept up-to-date
and stored appropriately

Completing the BACS payment service for the company on a daily service

Working with iPhone, iPads and Blackberry’s

Managing helpdesk tickets via TrackIT logging system

Providing ‘On Call’ support out-of-hours

Connecting and networking printers

Ensuring data centre is neatly patched 

Maintaining a professional telephone manner for those calling the
Servicedesk

Replying to customer emails for advice, hardware, software support and
general queries

Extensive use of Active Directory for managing and maintaining users,
groups and printers

Basic diagnosing of DNS and networking issues

Escalating issues when issues cannot be remedied at First Line level

Working with Symantec Backup Exec 2010 R2 to ensure daily and weekly
backups are undertaken with no errors, and resolving errors by looking
at error logs

Working with AS400 backup jobs and managing schedules, tape management.

Ensuring all company equipment is recorded on a asset register and kept
updated regularly

Primary contact for PO purchases and new company equipment

Helping with WSUS queries such as looking for updates missed, what needs
to be applied.

Date: August 2008 – March 2010 (Part Time, Weekends Only)

Retail Assistant

Comet Group 

 Comet is part of KESA Electricals plc, a pan-European group operating
in 12 countries.  All of the group's operating companies share a common
trading philosophy which is based on three principles: best price, best
choice, and best service.

Role includes

liaising with clients in all areas of sales Providing a personalized
approach in all areas of Customer Service 

meeting set sales targets stocking, replenishing and cleaning sales
areas;

assisting with product selection;

processing payments of various kinds;

offering advice to customers;

arranging delivery dates for larger items;

dealing with customer complaints;

utilizing specialist product knowledge;

            monitoring and updating sales display areas.

Education and Qualifications

Date: September 2007- August 2008 

GCSE: English (B, C), Science (C,C) Maths (D), P.E (B), History (C),
Graphic Products (C)	

Date: September 2008 – August 2009-10-15

A Level: Economics (D), Football Coaching (A)	

Passed 70-680 – Configuring Windows 7 

Passed 70-290 - Managing and Maintaining a Microsoft Windows Server 2003
Environment

RHCE – RHEL6: 130-047-301

Skills: I am proficient in Linux administration and all aspects of
RedHat && CentOS systems.  I am RHCE certified for RHEL6 :

Certificate Number : 130-047-301

Interests and Activities

I am very interested in learning new technologies, and in particular
open-source applications. I have a passion to become the best at what I
do and to that end, I am constantly learning new subjects that will help
me in my day-to-day job. I am also an avid follower of OpenStack.

I have a significant interest in Linux.  I am also a big fan
configuration management software, in particular ansible. I manage my
own github profile here:

https://github.com/viralmakwana/

References 

Available on request

